1925 Excerpts The Presidents News Conference 128

I have somewhat expected that my father, Colonel John C. Coolidge —he likes to have the C put in. I don't know whether he thinks he might become confused with his grandson. He likes to have it put in, and it doesn't take up much more type. I have asked him to come and stay during the winter at the White House. I spoke to him about it when I was up there last summer and have been in communication with him relative to it, and I received a letter this morning from the Attorney General [John Garibaldi Sargent] saying that my father was yesterday at the bank meeting at Ludlow and seemed to be in good spirits and was getting on comfortably. But the winters up there are very cold. The house is heated by wood. I thought it would be much more comfortable for him if he could come and stay at the White House. I rather think that he will come. That is for him to decide. I want him to consult his own wishes about it, of course, and stay wherever he thinks he will feel most comfortable and have the greater peace of mind.
I don't recall now whether I have had an invitation to go to Louisiana next year. It seems as though someone came in and spoke to me about going to New Orleans. I would like to go down into the South, especially Louisiana, to go to New Orleans, because I have never happened to be there. I have been in most of the states of the Union, as far South as South Carolina. I haven't visited Florida. I judge from the current news reports that Florida is not in need just at the present time of additional guests, but I should like to go down there very much. It is a wonderful country. I haven't been in Louisiana or Mississippi. I have been in Texas. I think those are all the states of the Union, with the possible exception of North Dakota, Montana and Idaho. When I went West once, I went over the Santa Fe and back another way, and another time over the Union Pacific and came back over the Canadian Pacific, so I didn't get into Idaho and Montana. I don't think I have been in North Dakota. The other states I have been in. But I haven't any plan about going South. It takes a considerable time to get down there and back. I think it is very doubtful if I can pay a visit to that state during the coming winter.