1929 The Presidents News Conference 886

THE PRESIDENT. I haven't any very alarming questions today. I have one as to the tax reduction, on which I have said before I could not make answer until we knew more about the budget situation.
BUDGET ALLOCATIONS FOR INDEPENDENT ESTABLISHMENTS
I think it may interest you to have the final budget allocations for the independent establishments. That is as far as the budget has progressed for 1931. I am having the table mimeographed, so you will have it immediately after the conference.
The independent establishments embrace both the Farm Board and the Budget Bureau. The total amount available for the current fiscal year for all of the establishments is $808,689,000 as you will see by this statement, and in that is $151,500,000 for the Farm Board. The budget allocations for the next fiscal year, that is 1931, are $656,571,000, but there is no provision for the Farm Board there, as the Farm Board has not yet been able to make an estimate. So the comparisons are a little confused. The actual expenditures for the last fiscal year on the independent establishments were $663,300,000. During the current year it would be about $650 million if the Farm Board item were taken out, and the estimate for the next year is $656 million, as I have stated, which shows about a $6 million increase which lies almost entirely in the Veterans Bureau. But you will have the table in a minute.
Q. Mr. President, is the District of Columbia included in that ?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so. No, the District budget is not in it. This is the independent establishments.
PUBLIC LAND COMMISSION APPOINTMENTS
I have one or two other very minor questions. The Public Land Commission is not yet appointed. We have the suggestions in from the Governors and Senators, and that is being gone into.
SAN FRANCISCO BRIDGE COMMISSION
On the question of the Bridge Commission in San Francisco, that Commission is to meet on the 6th of October in San Francisco.
ENTERTAINMENT OF PRIME MINISTER MACDONALD
I have another question as to what entertainment is to be given to Mr. MacDonald at the White House. From the purely personal [p.306] point of view, there will be a dinner to ladies and gentlemen to the utmost capacity of the White House, on Monday night--probably 90 people.
That is all I have.
NEWS CONFERENCE SESSIONS
I wonder sometimes whether when we have a thin day it is worth your while to come--whether we could not hand your questions over to Mr. Akerson, or whether you prefer to come. If you would rather have the open session I am entirely agreeable, but I always feel that I am not assisting you as much as I should like when we have a thin day like this.
Q. I think, Mr. President, we prefer the open session.