1929 The Presidents News Conference 820

APPOINTMENT OF LAWRENCE M. JUDD
THE PRESIDENT. This is a famine day. I have one appointment. That is Mr. Lawrence M. Judd to be the Governor of Hawaii, as Governor [Wallace Rider] Farrington, after several terms, refuses to continue any longer.
Q. Where is he from, Mr. President ?
THE PRESIDENT. Hawaii. They can give you some notes on his previous career and doings outside, I expect.
GENEVA MEETING ON DISARMAMENT
There is one point on some of the questions that came up that is entirely background, and not for quotation. This is for your own information in respect to the conference. I don't want to discuss that conference in its progress, of course, and this was clarification of one point.
It has been the view of Mr. Stimson and the rest of us that the key of reduction of armament was to find a new formula. I endeavored to explain that to you some weeks ago--a new method of evaluating naval strength which took into account the other factors besides tonnage. The tonnage factor is only one, as you know, of the five or six factors that are involved, and that the whole purpose of further progress would rest upon the successful finding of some base outside of the one factor of tonnage, on which there can be no general agreement. And tonnage does not represent the fighting strength of ships.
The other point on which there seems to be some little confusion-there is no question of compromise of ideas or compromise of any-I should not express it that way. It is a question of finding a new base for discussion, that often enough when discussions come to an end on a particular line, an entirely new base enables progress to be made. So do not quote me on no "compromise" because it is not a question of compromise one way or the other. It is finding a new base for discussion.
There is nothing in the air about the calling of naval conferences, but merely to see if on this occasion we can work out a base which would render progress possible.
The other point emphasized by Mr. Gibson was change in psychology from limitation, which has become more or less a term for increased construction, back to the fundamental conception of these relationships, which is a reduction in armament. There is no question involved here of relative strength. That is not under discussion. The American [p.108] Government has always insisted upon parity, no departure from any ideas of that character.
That is all that I have today.
Q. Anything on Cabinet meetings, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Nothing this morning.