1930 Exchange Remarks With President Hipolito Irigoyen The Inauguration Direct Radiotelephonic

Mr. President:
I am happy to have the pleasure of speaking with you on the occasion of the inauguration of the radiotelephone service between Argentina and the United States. I avail myself, for this purpose, of one of the most signal achievements of science and commerce, whereby radiotelephonic communication over the vast distances that separate our two countries has become a reality.
I cannot but recall, as I converse with you now without leaving my office in Washington, the long days during which I had voyaged southward by sea and the wonderful journey by rail over the Andes and across the famous and fertile plains of Argentina before it was possible for me to speak with you on another occasion.
It has often truly been said that in the measure that peoples enjoy personal acquaintance with one another, so do the intangible but none the less effective barriers which separate them dissolve. This new means of communication, therefore, which permits individuals separated in the almost insuperable physical manner in which residents of the Argentine Republic and of the United States now are, to converse, actually to speak and to hear the spoken word, must inevitably contribute to an extraordinary degree to the further destruction of those barriers.
Mr. Bliss
1
has brought to me gratifying reports of the continuing and ever-increasing prosperity and social advancement which are being enjoyed by the Argentine Nation, and it is my hope that the perfecting of this additional means of communication between our two States will by fostering that interchange of ideas and of commerce which constitute the relationship of states bring benefit to both.
1 Robert Woods Bliss was United States Ambassador to Argentina.
Mr. President, I repeat that it gives me great satisfaction to be reminded on this occasion of the most cordial reception you accorded me last year. The many courtesies and the sincere hospitality which you extended to me during my visit to Buenos Aires will always be remembered by me with sentiments of true appreciation.