1930 The Presidents News Conference 707

UNEMPLOYMENT AND BUSINESS CONDITIONS
THE PRESIDENT. The Departments of Commerce and Labor have been engaged in their usual monthly business and employment survey, and in this connection particularly with view to determining what results have been obtained from the various measures set in motion last November to overcome the hardship and distress brought about following the stock exchange disturbance.
Those surveys are not as yet entirely complete, but there are certain conclusions that are evident, and we will give you the memorandum from the two Secretaries giving the figures and statistics, which, I think, you will find are very interesting and very pertinent
There are certain conclusions that I can draw. One is that unemployment amounting to distress is in the main centered in 12 States. The authorities in the remaining 36 States indicate that only normal seasonal unemployment exists or that any abnormal unemployment is rapidly vanishing, and that there is no particular strain.
The low point of business and employment was reached in the latter part of December and early January. Since that time employment has been steadily increasing, and the situation is very much better now than it was then. The Departments will give you some active figures on that.
The nationwide response to the request for increased construction programs by the public authorities, the railways, utilities, has had a most material result. Construction contracts in those categories show about a 40 percent larger volume for January and February than ever before in the history of the United States, and the total construction program for this year, 1930, shows every assurance of being larger than 1929. The undertakings to uphold wages have all been held. The amount of unemployment is considerably less than one-half and probably not more than one-third of the volume of unemployment at the same period in the cycle following the crash of 1907 or that of 1922.
The measures that were taken to ameliorate interest rates have resulted in a continuous decrease since last December, thus affording lower rates for business and industry and enabling an increased volume of bonds to be placed for public improvement. Available money, however, for mortgage purposes in business and agriculture has lagged behind the other segments of credit. But there are some fundamental improvements there in the decrease in the demands made upon insurance companies for loans by their policyholders, thus freeing insurance company money again to a considerable extent to the mortgage market. And the measures taken by the Federal Reserve System should stimulate the availability of credit for mortgage purposes and enable the resumption of residential construction, which has been lagging behind the other categories.
All the facts indicate that the worst effects of the crash on employment will have been passed during the next 30 to 60 days. The resumption of employment throughout the seasonal trades, with the spring, the gradual strengthening of the various forces of recovery, and the successful and active work of the agencies that have been cooperating in restoration are all finding fine results, and I believe will remedy a very large portion of the existing hardship and distress.
I would particularly call attention to the memorandum from the Secretaries which we will give to you, but I won't read it. It is the result of careful research.
Q. May we have that memorandum?
THE PRESIDENT. We will give you that mimeographed in a few minutes.