1930 Remarks Welcoming President Elect Julio Prestes Brazil

Mr. President-elect:
It gives me the greatest possible pleasure to welcome Your Excellency on this occasion and to express to you my profound appreciation of the signal honor which you, through your visit, are conferring upon the Government and people of the United States. Your presence is but another evidence of that sincere and uninterrupted friendship which has always linked our countries together so that it can truly be described as traditional. It is, therefore, an especial privilege for me to be able this evening to convey to you and the Brazilian nation a message of cordiality and esteem from the sister republic of the north.
The friendly relations to which I have just alluded are the natural outgrowth of the traditions and ideals which our two nations hold in common. Firm believers in democracy, they are successfully upholding within their borders the principles of self-government. In their relations with the other nations of the world they are animated by a desire to maintain amity and, through loyal efforts, to further the cause of peace.
In other respects also, sir, your nation is viewed with sympathetic admiration by my countrymen. Your people are conquering the wilderness and are bringing to the markets of the world the fruits of their labor. The inexhaustible riches of your great country, which are contributing so effectively to the comfort and progress of mankind, offer a marvelous field of activity to the industry of your people. One need not be a prophet to say that the future of Brazil is one of unlimited possibilities.
To the life of this great nation, sir, you have been for many years contributing your patriotic endeavors. Your field of activity has been broad and comprehensive, earning thereby the confidence and affection of the Brazilian nation, which has rewarded you with the supreme honor that a republic can bestow on one of its sons. In your long and honorable public career you have served in the legislatures of your native state and of the Federal Government, and you have discharged the duties of Chief Executive of the great State of Sao Paulo. The wide experience you have gained will contribute greatly to the welfare and prosperity of your country.
I cannot, Mr. President-elect, permit this opportunity to pass without referring to my delightful visit to your country. Particularly do I wish to mention the cordiality of the reception that was accorded to me in your beautiful capital. I was particularly impressed, sir, with the spontaneity of that reception and the evidences of sincere and unaffected friendship for the United States which greeted me on every side. It is no exaggeration to say that the impression of that friendship which I carried away with me will always remain in my memory as a living evidence of the sentiments which the people of Brazil cherish towards the people of the United States, and which I hardly need assure Your Excellency are sincerely and heartily reciprocated by them.
As I have said, Mr. President-elect, it is a great pleasure for me to extend to you a most cordial and heartfelt welcome on the part of the Government and the people of the United States. It is my earnest hope that your visit here will be as pleasant as was my own visit to Brazil, and I should be most happy if you felt when you leave us some measure of the satisfaction with which I myself look back on my experience in your country. Nothing contributes so much to better understanding between peoples and a closer cooperation between nations which have common ideals and common purposes as personal contacts and friendships between individuals, and it is peculiarly gratifying to us that we have this opportunity to have you with us. Mrs. Hoover, who is greatly disappointed that she has not been able to have the pleasure of welcoming you here, joins me in extending to you our best wishes for your personal welfare and happiness and for the success of your administration. Permit me also to express the hope that Senhora Prestes will soon be fully restored to health. It was a keen disappointment to us that she was unable to accompany Your Excellency here.
I am personally very happy, Mr. Ambassador, to have been able to enjoy your hospitality this evening, and I appreciate deeply the courtesy which you have shown me.