1931 The Presidents News Conference 670

OKLAHOMA DISTRICT ATTORNEY
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't any great wealth of news. News is not subject to manufacture. There was a District Attorney in the Western District of Oklahoma, Mr. Herbert K. Hyde, appointed this morning.
PUBLIC BUILDING PROJECTS
I have two reports which I think are of public interest. One of them is from the Treasury Department as to the progress in the public building program. As you know from previous reports, they have a total of 758 projects which have been specifically authorized at a cost of about $453 million, and, as you know, each one of those projects has to pass through a long and painful experience of advancements from one stage to another--from the determination of the site and the local conflicts that arise about it, the acquirement of the site and the local difficulties that must arise from it apparently, and the final and ultimate contract for the building. So that the Treasury reports these different stages of advancement of the projects. I will give you a shorthand note on this.
Up to date on the program they have completed 57 buildings, amounting to something over $25 million. Between May 15 and July 15--May 15 being the date of the last report--42 additional contracts have been let, bringing up the total buildings under contract to 192, with an estimated cost of $135 million. The next stage of delay is that all sites that have been acquired, plans have been completed, and are in process of being offered for bid. Forty-seven additional projects advanced to this stage since May 15, making the total now of 61 in that category, at an estimated cost of about $44 million.
Then the next category--the sites that have been acquired and the plans in course of preparation. There are 192 projects in that stage, at an estimated cost of about $181 million. And then there are the various categories of sites, negotiations, bids that have been advertised for, and so on.
The important thing about it is that the preliminaries have been gotten through in a very large majority on the sites, and the rest of the program moves with a great deal of expedition. There should be probably $300 million under contract by fall.
UNITED STATES EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
The other report is one from the Department of Labor on the development of the reorganized labor service which was authorized by Congress at the last session. It shows a very large measure of accomplishments, the details of which you can see in the report.
Otherwise than that I haven't anything of any particular interest this morning.
Q. Will the Labor report be given out ?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, in 10 or 15 minutes.