1950 Remarks Upon Awarding The Congressional Medal Honor Maj Gen William F Dean

THE CITATION on which I have awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor to Maj. Gen. William F. Dean is an inadequate description of the gallant acts of that distinguished officer. These acts, so inspiring to those of us here on the home front, were of almost incalculable value on the battlefield. They substantially contributed to the surge of heroism and devotion which swept through the ranks of the embattled Infantrymen of those early days in Korea and enabled them to make their magnificent stand against the overwhelming forces opposing them.
Once again in our history, despite all the wonders of modern science and the massive weight of the world's industrial production, victory has been gained because the man standing on the ground, sleeping in the mud and fighting face to face with a ruthless and determined foe would not give up.
In the beginning many of these soldiers fighting on the ground were little more than boys bewildered by the whirlwind of events into which necessity hurled them. But these boys became men, stood their ground and fought in a tradition of stubborn determination for which every American can feel a deep and abiding pride. Disputing every hill and rice paddy, they made it possible for us to muster and transport the strength which has defeated the forces of aggression.
Many of them lie buried in Korea. Many more have been wounded and many whose fate is still not known, are missing in action. The free peoples of the world, and those enslaved peoples who dream of freedom, give honor to these men. To those who sacrificed their lives, they erect in their hearts a monument which time cannot efface--an enduring faith in the deeds of men who are making possible a free and peaceful world.
As President of the United States, I am privileged to voice this tribute of my profound respect and admiration for valor above and beyond the call of duty which characterized the spirit of our soldiers in those bitter early weeks of the Korean conflict. I am confident that my words reflect the feeling in the hearts of all Americans.