1950 Remarks Arlington Cemetery The Unveiling The Statue Sir John Dill

Mr. Ambassador, General Marshall, Mr. Chairman:
I welcome this opportunity to remind my countrymen that the maintenance of a perfect understanding between the people of Great Britain and the United States is of great importance to the peace of the world-it is of the greatest importance to the peace of the world.
This statue will stand as a memorial not only to a man but to a remarkable Anglo-American relationship that bore fruit in a great victory--a really great victory.
Now, if we can just win the peace in the same manner that we won that war, we can look forward to generations of happiness on this earth.
Field Marshal Sir John Dill died before I assumed the Office of President. I did not have the good fortune to know him personally. Our military leaders, however, made clear to me the tremendous service he rendered his own country and this country during the most trying days of the war.
He was a great Englishman, with a breadth of wisdom and a depth of understanding that transcended the boundaries of his own country.
The purity of his character, the directness of his purpose endeared him to all his American associates and inspired a real devotion to him and a complete trust in him. And that is the greatest thing that can come to any man, when he is completely trusted by his associates. We need more, these days, of that same high integrity--men who can command respect by their honesty and the sincerity of their purpose.
It is important to the peace of the world that peoples understand each other and have full faith in each other's sincerity.
That is all we ask. That is all we want. We have no ambitions, only world peace.
Such men as this make it possible. This is particularly true in regard to the people of the United Kingdom and the people of the United States.
I pay tribute here today to the memory of a great man, and to the services he rendered to both our countries in the common struggle for a free and decent world.